adding CI, CD, config mgmt. testing content (#4)
cdfoundation/best-practices-site: content/en/learn/ci/_index.md

- Relationship to other practices

# Why Continuous Integration

Continuous Integration ensures that coding changes are merged, compiled/linked, packaged and registered frequently, avoiding broken builds and ensuring a clean release candidate is available continuously. 

# Definition
[Continuous Integration](https://github.com/cdfoundation/glossary/blob/main/definitions.md#continuous-integration), the CI in CI/CD, is the practice of combining code changes frequently, where each change is verified on check-in.

> - Examples of verifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of verifications:
```

- Code scanning
- Testing
- Building and packaging

# Description and Scope

> Minimizing broken builds due to incompatible coding changes is the purpose of the continuous integration process. Many of us can remember the days when project teams would have a ‘sync-up’ process which generally meant check-in all of your coding updates and let us all ‘pray’ the build runs. An unsung hero called the Build Manager created the build script which would include merging and pulling all of the coding updates based on ‘tags’ and then get the build to run. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minimizing broken builds due to incompatible coding changes is the purpose of the continuous integration process. Historically, project teams would have a ‘sync-up’ process which generally meant check-in all of your coding updates and hope that the build runs successfully. An unsung hero called the Build Manager created the build script which would include merging and pulling all of the coding updates based on ‘tags’ and then get the build to run. 
```

Continuous integration changed the way the build (merge, compile/link, package and register) step was implemented. By triggering the process on a check-in of code to the versioning system, continuous integration quickly identified if a developer broke the build when they introduced new code. In essence, the process of merging, compiling and linking code on a high frequency basis allows for the continuous integration of coding changes as soon as possible. If the build breaks due to a coding update, the build is easier to fix with smaller incremental changes, versus the ‘sync-up’ method where dozens of possible coding changes impacted the build leaving it to the build manager to sort out all of the problems - a tedious and onerous process. And more frequent builds meant that testing got more frequent updates, truly the beginning of ‘agile’ or incremental software updates. 

> The process of triggering the ‘build’ is sometimes referred to as the continuous build step of the CI process. This step is executed by calling a static build script created and maintained by the build manager. It is in this step that all of the software configuration management is performed which includes determining what code to pull, what libraries to use and what parameters must be passed to the compilers and linkers.  The ‘build’ step of CI is triggered by a source code ‘check-in’ event.  It then executes a workflow process to run the build script and create, package and register the new binaries and thereby create a new release candidate. 

Reviewer: the 'build manager' thing mentioned here makes it sound like it's still a human as before.

As CI matured, so did the process around the central theme. CI workflows were created by developers to not only run the build script, but also deploy the new binaries to a development endpoint followed by running automated testing. In addition, code and library management steps were added to the build improving the quality and security of code, and ensuring the usage of the correct transitive dependencies, open source licenses, and security scans were done during the creation of the release candidate.   

# Best Practices
## Merging
Defining a merge strategy is best discussed in the version control section of this document. However, as merging relates to the CI build process, there are some basic best practices to consider. Keep in mind, merging is triggered after a pull request has been approved. 

> ### Know your Merging Strategy

Reviewer: only having a single subheading, it might just be worth omitting the previous paragraph and this heading, and pulling the content below up?

In your build step, it is important to understand what code is being pulled from version control to be compiled. For this reason, there should be clear best practices defined for managing branches. 

> Compile by Branch - for every build, a branch is referenced. The branch name is passed to the build step to determine what to pull for the compile/link. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it's just me, but "compile/link" doesn't fit many languages I work with (js, python). I wonder if that might be offputting to folks somehow?

Compile by Tag - a Tag has been applied to all objects in the repository and the build pulls the code based on the Tag for the compile step. The Tag is a collection of objects that relate together. 

## Compile/Link Best Practices
The creation of build scripts and how they are managed can often be controversial. Writing a build script is not easy in large monolithic practices. Whether it be a build script for Java or more complex C++ code, it is a tedious and time consuming process. There are some basic guidelines that should be followed for creating the build scripts that the CI process will run.

### Build Work Products
Regardless of what type of build is executing, it should produce 3 basic outputs.

> 1. A build should create not only the binaries, but also the application package named based on a version numbering schema that relates back to the versioning Tag. (MSI, zip, rpm, or container image)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A build should create not only the binaries, but also the application package named based on a version schema that relates back to the versioning Tag. (MSI, zip, rpm, or container image)
```

> 2. A full Bill of Material report should be required at minimum for all production releases. BOM reports are often undervalued, but they are key to debugging issues if needed. A BOM report should show:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A full Bill of Material report should be required at minimum for all production releases. BOM reports are key to debugging issues if needed. A BOM report should show:
```

I think saying they're undervalued reduces the value of this statement. Just tell folks this is what we do, and I think it has more oomph.
